Now how do we use these components? In a project where we imported this Ionic component library and
there are actually different ways of importing it as you will also learn in this course,
so in a project where we have this library imported, we have access to this core of Ionic, to these components
and we use them just like regular HTML elements
and now that is really important to understand if you never worked with web components before, the term
might be or will be brand new to you and you might not know how to work with them.
Well the thing is you just add them with their tags into your HTML code, in the places where you want
to use them, just like regular HTML elements
and here is an example, this would be the ion-button, basically a button provided by Ionic which wraps
a native normal HTML button and then add some extra styling and extra functionality to it
and that's also important.
These web components are not just about pre-styled elements,
they do add Javascript logic to them as well or at least they can and they often do
and then this button here can be configured, it can receive attributes, just as you can set attributes
on normal HTML elements. But of course the attributes you can set here and the properties you
could set on this button programmatically as well depend on the exact web component you're using because
all the things you can configure here, like the fill mode which defines which style of button this is
and the color,
these are of course things you can configure because the Ionic team made them configurable and the official
docs are the place to go to learn which attributes and properties you can set on these web components
and I'll guide you through thee docs later in this module.
So we use it like a normal HTML element,
it supports attributes and properties and these elements can also emit events and that is also quite
interesting,
you can emit your own events when you are building your own web components and therefore a lot of Ionic
components
actually also emit customer events to which you can listen,
something like a special ion change event for select dropdown for example and we'll see some of these
events throughout the course. Now under the hood,
such a button as I mentioned is in the end a combination of the three core drivers of front-end web
development. It contains some HTML code under the hood
and here, we have the normal regular by default supported HTML elements and in the end, all web components
are made up of such vanilla HTML elements.
Now actually, a web component can be made up of other web components as well
but if you dig down through all web components, the one at the bottom which doesn't include other web
components will only include normal HTML elements,
so that's important to understand. Such a web component is basically like a wrapped up piece of pre-structured
HTML code.
Now we don't just have HTML code, we also have some CSS styling
and here you actually see something special for the value, for the color,
this var thing. This is a CSS variable and this makes styling this web component from outside and
applying a general theme very easy and we'll dive deeply into this in the styling and theming module of
the course.
But as I mentioned, a web component is not just a combination of HTML and CSS, we also have a Javascript
portion in there which adds certain functionalities to that component, which exposes properties that
can be set, which controls things like that we can set the color or the fill mode of that button.
So all of that is controlled with JavaScript and this is all packaged up together and basically wrapped
into a Javascript object
you could say which we can add to the HTML code to the DOM with this ion-button selector.
Now under the hood, this also uses a technique called The Shadow DOM and CSS variables which help
with encapsulating the styles of this component, so that the styling applied to the elements in
this component doesn't spill over to your app or to other components and the Ionic web components
actually also automatically load any polyfills that might be required to make them run on older browsers.
Modern browsers support all the web component features by default, older browsers don't and therefore
Ionic actually make sure that these components work on older browsers as well by automatically polyfilling
everything that is required.
Now that is as deep as I want to dive into web components here because you don't need to be able to
build web components to use them. If you want to build them and if you want to understand everything
here, you can take my Web Component With Stencil course. Stencil
as I mentioned in the first course module is a tool developed by the Ionic company, by the Ionic team
that they used internally to build all these web components,
it's in the end a tool that just makes the creation of web components easier,
it still spits out normal vanilla web components in the end and you can use that tool too
and in this course I do cover it. Now may be also interesting to you, Ionic is of course open source and
if you visit it's repository on Github here under Ionic team Ionic,
you can always dive into this core folder and inspect the source code of the component you're interested
in.
For example if you select a button here, this is this ion-button component, there you will always find
a TSX file because Stencil uses Typescript and so on and in this TSX file, you see how in Stencil,
this component was created
and this is not the code that gets imported into your app when you include that component,
this is the raw code which is actually compiled to a native component by Stencil,
you see the raw version here
but if you are learning Stencil and you want to understand what happens under the hood, you can always
dive into the source code of this component
and for example also see which properties you can set there, things like the disabled property, the button
type, the color and of course you can also see this in a more convenient way in the official docs
but I find it quite interesting to sometimes dive into this official source code to understand how
this actually works under the hood and how this,
in this case this button, is created under the hood.